# 2.1
## 1
*for visual clarity, I'm actually listing the set, not the members*
> List the members of these sets. 
> 
> a) { x | x is a real number such that $x^2 = 1$ } 
> 
> b) { x | x is a positive integer less than 12 } 
> 
> c) { x | x is the square of an integer and $x < 100$ } 
> 
> d) { x | x is an integer such that $x^2 = 2$ }

- A: {1}
- B: {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11}
- C: {1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 81}
- D: {}
## 3
> For each of these pairs of sets, determine whether the first is a subset of the second, the second is a subset of the first, or neither is a subset of the other. 
> 
> a) the set of airline flights from New York to New Delhi, the set of nonstop airline flights from New York to New Delhi
> 
> b) the set of people who speak English, the set of people who speak Chinese
> 
> c) the set of flying squirrels, the set of living creatures that can fly

- A: Second is a subset of first
- B: Neither is a subset of each other
- C: First is a subset of second
## 7
> For each of the following sets, determine whether 2 is an element of that set. 
> 
> a) { x ∈ R | x is an integer greater than 1 } 
> 
> b) { x ∈ R | x is the square of an integer } 
> 
> c) { 2 , { 2 }} 
> 
> d) {{ 2 } , {{ 2 }}} 
> 
> e) {{ 2 } , { 2 , { 2 }}} 
> 
> f) {{{ 2 }}}

- A: Yes
- B: No
- C: Yes
- D: No
- E: No
- F: No
## 11
> Determine whether each of these statements is true or false. 
> 
> a) x ∈{ x } 
> 
> b) { x }⊆{ x } 
> 
> c) { x }∈{ x } 
> 
> d) { x }∈{{ x }} 
> 
> e) ∅ ⊆ { x } 
> 
> f) ∅ ∈ { x }

- A: True
- B: True
- C: False
- D: True
- E: True
- F: False
## 13
> Use a Venn diagram to illustrate the set of all months of the year whose names do not contain the letter R in the set of all months of the year.

*Diagrams are hard in code. Trust that I know what a Venn diagram is*

- P: Months of the year
- Q: Months not containing 'R'

- $P$: {Jan, Feb, Mar, Apr, May, Jun, Jul, Aug, Sep, Oct, Nov, Dec}
- $Q$: {Jan, May, Jun, Jul, Aug}
- $P\cap Q$: {Jan, May, Jun, Jul, Aug}
- { $x | x \in Q \wedge \not (x \inP\cap Q)$: {}
## 19
> What is the cardinality of each of these sets? 
> 
> a) { a } 
> 
> b) {{ a }} 
> 
> c) { a, { a }} 
> 
> d) { a, { a } , { a, { a }}}

- A: 1
- B: 1
- C: 2
- D: 3
## 21
> Find the power set of each of these sets, where a and b are distinct elements. 
> 
> a) { a } 
> 
> b) { a, b } 
> 
> c) {∅ , {∅}}

- A: { $\emptyset$, {a} }
- B: { $\emptyset$, {a}, {b}, {a,b} }
- C: { $\emptyset$, { $\emptyset$ }, {{ $\emptyset$ }}, { $\emptyset$, { $\emptyset$ }} }

## 25
> Prove that $P(A) \subseteq P(B) \iff A\subseteq B$

This is essentially the definition of power sets and subsets, so I'm not quite sure how to 'prove' that?
## 35
> How many different elements does A × B have if A has m elements and B has n elements?

$m \cdot n$
