# 2.5
## Confirmation: d28ab46d-fbd6-4dbd-a2ce-dda5aac4023f
## 1
> Determine whether each of these sets is finite, countably infinite, or uncountable. For those that are countably infinite, exhibit a one-to-one correspondence between the set of positive integers and that set. 
> 
> a) the negative integers
> 
> c) the integers less than 100
> 
> e) the positive integers less than 1,000,000,000

- A: Countably Infinite:  $Z^-_n = -1 \cdot Z^+_n$
- C: Finite
- E: Finite
## 5
> Show that a finite group of guests arriving at Hilbert’s fully occupied Grand Hotel can be given rooms without evicting any current guest.

Count the number of guests arriving as $m$. Instruct each current guest to move to the room number $m$ higher than their current room number. Then place each of the new guests in one of the first $m$ rooms
## 7
> Suppose that Hilbert’s Grand Hotel is fully occupied on the day the hotel expands to a second building which also contains a countably infinite number of rooms. Show that the current guests can be spread out to fill every room of the two buildings of the hotel.

Have guest in even numbered room $p = 2j$ to move to room $j$ in the new building, and each guest in odd numbered room $q = 2k+1$ to move to room $k$ in the current building
## 9
> Suppose that a countably infinite number of buses, each containing a countably infinite number of guests, arrive at Hilbert’s fully occupied Grand Hotel. Show that all the arriving guests can be accommodated without evicting any current guest.

Answer for mere mortals: Say "We're out of rooms" and get a good night's sleep

Answer for math majors: Give up all your sleep for that night, and...

Create an infinite matrix -- rows are each bus, and the column is the position within the bus. From there, iterate across the diagonals

|---|---|---|---|---|
|Bus 1 Person 1|Bus 1 Person 2|Bus 1 Person 3|Bus 1 Person 4|...|
|Bus 2 Person 1|Bus 2 Person 2|Bus 2 Person 3|Bus 2 Person 4|...|
|Bus 3 Person 1|Bus 3 Person 2|Bus 3 Person 3|Bus 3 Person 4|...|
|Bus 4 Person 1|Bus 4 Person 2|Bus 4 Person 3|Bus 4 Person 4|...|
|...|...|...|...|...|

---

|Room Number|Occupant|
|---|---|
|1|Bus 1 Person 1|
|2|Bus 1 Person 2|
|3|Bus 2 Person 1|
|4|Bus 3 Person 1|
|5|Bus 2 Person 2|
|6|Bus 1 Person 3|
|7|Bus 1 Person 4|
|...|...|

This is a bad explanation, but it's the same as the mapping for showing that rational numbers are countably infinite